README.md, before:

# marathon-autoscale
Dockerized auto-scaler application that can be run under Marathon management to dynamically scale a service running on DC/OS.

## Prerequisites
1. A running DC/OS cluster
2. DC/OS CLI installed on your local machine

If running on a DC/OS cluster in Permissive or Strict mode, an user or service account with the appropriate permissions to modify Marathon jobs.  An example script for setting up a service account can be found in create-service-account.sh

## Installation/Configuration

### Building the Docker container

How to build the container:
    
    docker build .
    docker tag <tag-id> <docker-hub-name>:marathon-autoscale:latest
    docker push <docker-hub-name>:marathon-autoscale:latest

### (Optional) Creating a service account

The create_service_account.sh script takes two parameters: 

    Service-Account-Name #the name of the service account you want to create
    Namespace-Path #the path to launch this service under marathon management.  e.g. / or /dev

    $ ./create-service-account.sh [service-account-name] [namespace-path]

### Marathon definitions
Update one of the definitions in the [Marathon definitions](marathon_defs/) folder to match your specific configuration. Marathon application names must include the forward slash. This modification was made in order to handle applications within service groups. (e.g. /group/hello-dcos)

Core environment variables available to the application:

    AS_MARATHON_APP # app to autoscale
    AS_TRIGGER_MODE # scaling mode (cpu | mem | sqs)
    AS_AUTOSCALE_MULTIPLIER # multiplier for triggered scale up or down
    AS_MIN_INSTANCES # min number of instances, don’t make less than 2
    AS_MAX_INSTANCES # max number of instances, must be greater than AS_MIN_INSTANCES
    AS_DCOS_MASTER # hostname of dcos master
    AS_COOL_DOWN_FACTOR # how many times should we poll before scaling down
    AS_SCALE_UP_FACTOR # how many times should we pole before scaling up
    AS_INTERVAL # how often should we poll in seconds
    AS_VERBOSE # verbose logging for debugging

If you are using an authentication:

    AS_USERID # username of the user or service account with access to scale the service
    --and either--
    AS_PASSWORD: secret0 # password of the userid above ideally from the secret store
    AS_SECRET: secret0 # private key of the userid above ideally from the secret store

If you are using CPU as your scaling mode:

    AS_MAX_CPU_TIME # max average cpu time as float, e.g. 80 or 80.5
    AS_MIN_CPU_TIME # min average cpu time as float, e.g. 55 or 55.5

If you are using Memory as your scaling mode:

    AS_MAX_MEM_PERCENT # max avg mem utilization percent as float, e.g. 75 or 75.0
    AS_MIN_MEM_PERCENT # min avg men utilization percent as float, e.g. 55 or 55.0

If you are using SQS as your scaling mode:

    AS_SQS_NAME # name of the aws simple queue service
    AS_SQS_ENDPOINT # endpoint url of the sqs service
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID # aws access key
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY # aws secret key
    AWS_DEFAULT_REGION # aws region
    AS_MIN_SQS_LENGTH # min number of available messages in the queue
    AS_MAX_SQS_LENGTH # max number of available messages in the queue

## Program Execution / Usage

Add your application to Marathon using the DC/OS Marathon CLI.

    $ dcos marathon app add marathon_defs/marathon.json

Where the marathon.json has been built from one of the samples:

    autoscale-cpu-noauth-marathon.json #security disabled or OSS DC/OS
    autoscale-mem-noauth-marathon.json #security disabled or OSS DC/OS
    autoscale-sqs-noauth-marathon.json #security disabled or OSS DC/OS
    autoscale-cpu-svcacct-marathon.json #security permissive or strict on Enterprise DC/OS, using service account and private key (private key stored as a secret)

Verify the app is added with the command `$ dcos marathon app list`

## Scaling Modes

#### CPU 

In this mode, the system will scale the service up or down when the CPU has been out of range for the number of cycles defined in AS_SCALE_UP_FACTOR (for up) or AS_COOL_DOWN_FACTOR (for down). For MIN_CPU_TIME and MAX_CPU_TIME on multicore containers, the calculation for determining the value is # of CPU * desired CPU utilization percentage = CPU time (e.g. 80 cpu time * 2 cpu = 160 cpu time)

#### MEM 

In this mode, the system will scale the service up or down when the Memory has been out of range for the number of cycles defined in AS_SCALE_UP_FACTOR (for up) or AS_COOL_DOWN_FACTOR (for down). For MIN_MEM_PERCENT and MAX_MEM_PERCENT on very small containers, remember that Mesos adds 32MB to the container spec for container overhead (namespace and cgroup), so your target percentages should take that into account.  Alternatively, consider using the CPU only scaling mode for containers with very small memory footprints.

#### SQS

In this mode, the system will scale the service up or down when the Queue available message length has been out of range for the number of cycles defined in AS_SCALE_UP_FACTOR (for up) or AS_COOL_DOWN_FACTOR (for down). For the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Simple Queue Service (SQS) scaling mode, the queue length will be determined by the approximate number of visible messages attribute. The ApproximateNumberOfMessages attribute returns the approximate number of visible messages in a queue.

## Extending the auto-scaler (adding a new scaling mode)
In order to create a new scaling mode, you must create a new subclass in the modes directory/module and implement all abstract methods (min, max, value) of the abstract class ScaleMode.

An example skeleton is below:
```
class ScaleByExample(AbstractMode):

    def __init__(self, marathon_client, app_name):
        super().__init__(marathon_client, app_name)

    def get_value(self):

    def get_min(self):

    def get_max(self):
```

Once the new subclass is created, add the new mode to the MODE dictionary in autoscaler.py.
```
# Dict defines the different scaling modes available to autoscaler
MODES = {
    'sqs': ScaleBySQS,
    'cpu': ScaleCPU,
    'example': ScaleByExample
}
```

Commit message:

refactored min/max ranges for dimension

README.md, after:

# marathon-autoscale
Dockerized auto-scaler application that can be run under Marathon management to dynamically scale a service running on DC/OS.

## Prerequisites
1. A running DC/OS cluster
2. DC/OS CLI installed on your local machine

If running on a DC/OS cluster in Permissive or Strict mode, an user or service account with the appropriate permissions to modify Marathon jobs.  An example script for setting up a service account can be found in create-service-account.sh

## Installation/Configuration

### Building the Docker container

How to build the container:
    
    docker build .
    docker tag <tag-id> <docker-hub-name>:marathon-autoscale:latest
    docker push <docker-hub-name>:marathon-autoscale:latest

### (Optional) Creating a service account

The create_service_account.sh script takes two parameters: 

    Service-Account-Name #the name of the service account you want to create
    Namespace-Path #the path to launch this service under marathon management.  e.g. / or /dev

    $ ./create-service-account.sh [service-account-name] [namespace-path]

### Marathon definitions
Update one of the definitions in the [Marathon definitions](marathon_defs/) folder to match your specific configuration. Marathon application names must include the forward slash. This modification was made in order to handle applications within service groups. (e.g. /group/hello-dcos)

Core environment variables available to the application:

    AS_MARATHON_APP # app to autoscale
    AS_TRIGGER_MODE # scaling mode (cpu | mem | sqs)
    AS_AUTOSCALE_MULTIPLIER # multiplier for triggered scale up or down
    AS_MIN_INSTANCES # min number of instances, don’t make less than 2
    AS_MAX_INSTANCES # max number of instances, must be greater than AS_MIN_INSTANCES
    AS_DCOS_MASTER # hostname of dcos master
    AS_COOL_DOWN_FACTOR # how many times should we poll before scaling down
    AS_SCALE_UP_FACTOR # how many times should we pole before scaling up
    AS_INTERVAL # how often should we poll in seconds
    AS_MIN_RANGE # minimum range of the scaling modes dimension
    AS_MAX_RANGE # maximum range of the scaling modes dimension
    AS_VERBOSE # verbose logging for debugging

If you are using an authentication:

    AS_USERID # username of the user or service account with access to scale the service
    --and either--
    AS_PASSWORD: secret0 # password of the userid above ideally from the secret store
    AS_SECRET: secret0 # private key of the userid above ideally from the secret store

If you are using CPU as your scaling mode:

    AS_MAX_RANGE # max average cpu time as float, e.g. 80 or 80.5
    AS_MIN_RANGE # min average cpu time as float, e.g. 55 or 55.5

If you are using Memory as your scaling mode:

    AS_MAX_RANGE # max avg mem utilization percent as float, e.g. 75 or 75.0
    AS_MIN_RANGE # min avg men utilization percent as float, e.g. 55 or 55.0

If you are using SQS as your scaling mode:

    AS_SQS_NAME # name of the aws simple queue service
    AS_SQS_ENDPOINT # endpoint url of the sqs service
    AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID # aws access key
    AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY # aws secret key
    AWS_DEFAULT_REGION # aws region
    AS_MIN_RANGE # min number of available messages in the queue
    AS_MAX_RANGE # max number of available messages in the queue

## Program Execution / Usage

Add your application to Marathon using the DC/OS Marathon CLI.

    $ dcos marathon app add marathon_defs/marathon.json

Where the marathon.json has been built from one of the samples:

    autoscale-cpu-noauth-marathon.json #security disabled or OSS DC/OS
    autoscale-mem-noauth-marathon.json #security disabled or OSS DC/OS
    autoscale-sqs-noauth-marathon.json #security disabled or OSS DC/OS
    autoscale-cpu-svcacct-marathon.json #security permissive or strict on Enterprise DC/OS, using service account and private key (private key stored as a secret)

Verify the app is added with the command `$ dcos marathon app list`

## Scaling Modes

#### CPU 

In this mode, the system will scale the service up or down when the CPU has been out of range for the number of cycles defined in AS_SCALE_UP_FACTOR (for up) or AS_COOL_DOWN_FACTOR (for down). For MIN_CPU_TIME and MAX_CPU_TIME on multicore containers, the calculation for determining the value is # of CPU * desired CPU utilization percentage = CPU time (e.g. 80 cpu time * 2 cpu = 160 cpu time)

#### MEM 

In this mode, the system will scale the service up or down when the Memory has been out of range for the number of cycles defined in AS_SCALE_UP_FACTOR (for up) or AS_COOL_DOWN_FACTOR (for down). For MIN_MEM_PERCENT and MAX_MEM_PERCENT on very small containers, remember that Mesos adds 32MB to the container spec for container overhead (namespace and cgroup), so your target percentages should take that into account.  Alternatively, consider using the CPU only scaling mode for containers with very small memory footprints.

#### SQS

In this mode, the system will scale the service up or down when the Queue available message length has been out of range for the number of cycles defined in AS_SCALE_UP_FACTOR (for up) or AS_COOL_DOWN_FACTOR (for down). For the Amazon Web Services (AWS) Simple Queue Service (SQS) scaling mode, the queue length will be determined by the approximate number of visible messages attribute. The ApproximateNumberOfMessages attribute returns the approximate number of visible messages in a queue.

## Extending the auto-scaler (adding a new scaling mode)
In order to create a new scaling mode, you must create a new subclass in the modes directory/module and implement all abstract methods (min, max, value) of the abstract class ScaleMode.

An example skeleton is below:
```
class ScaleByExample(AbstractMode):

    def __init__(self, marathon_client, app_name, dimension):
        super().__init__(marathon_client, app_name, dimension)

    def get_value(self):

    def get_min(self):

    def get_max(self):
```

Once the new subclass is created, add the new mode to the MODE dictionary in autoscaler.py.
```
# Dict defines the different scaling modes available to autoscaler
MODES = {
    'sqs': ScaleBySQS,
    'cpu': ScaleByCPU,
    'mem': ScaleByMemory,
    'example': ScaleByExample
}
```
